Deploy RottenPotatoes and Enhancement #1
========================================

Part A —Add some movies to RottenPotatoes, and deploy it to the world
---------------------------------------------------------------------

We have a version of RottenPotatoes that has had some slight modifications for
successful deployment on Heroku, and to which we've added an additional handful
of movies to make things more interesting. Check out the app on your VM (or
other development environment) by running the following commands:

    git clone git://github.com/saasbook/hw2_rottenpotatoes.git
    cd hw2_rottenpotatoes

The first command will pull down the latest version of the RottenPotatoes
starter code, and the second will move you into the directory which now contains
the code.

The next step is to install the necessary gems for the app. Do this by running

    bundle install --without production

The ```--without production``` part of the command causes the installer to
ignore the PostgreSQL gem for your local installation (since that gem will cause
problems if you're using a development environment without PostgreSQL
installed).

Note that we provided a seed file that seeds the database with a bunch of
movies. Take a look at the code in db/seeds.rb to review how these work. When
you're ready, run

    rake db:migrate

to apply all RottenPotatoes migrations to your local database. Then run

    rake db:seed

to seed your local database with the movies from the seed file.

Verify that you can successfully run the app by using the command

    rails server

If this works properly, you should be able to interact with RottenPotatoes via a
web browser as described in the book and in lecture. Check that you can see a
list of all the movies when you access 'localhost:3000/movies'.

Once the above steps have been verified on your development computer, it's time
to deploy on Heroku. Create a free Heroku.com account if you haven't already,
and deploy RottenPotatoes there. Appendix A in the textbook has more information
about this procedure, and Heroku has detailed help pages as well. (Note that
your app's name, something.herokuapp.com, must be unique among Heroku apps.
It's therfore unlikely that the name "rottenpotatoes" will be available. You
must either choose a different name or you may just keep the default name Heroku
chooses for you when you create a new app.)

Since this is the first deployment of this app on Heroku, its database will be
empty. To fix this, after you've pushed your app to Heroku, run

    heroku run rake db:migrate

to apply all RottenPotatoes migrations. In this case, we only have one migration
file that creates the Movies table (which had already been applied when you got
your VM). You will also need to run

    heroku run rake db:seed

to seed your Heroku app's database with the movies we've created in seeds.rb.

Visit your site at your-app-name.herokuapp.com/movies to verify that it’s
working.


Part B — RottenPotatoes Enhancement #1: Sorting the list of all movies
----------------------------------------------------------------------

You will enhance RottenPotatoes in the following ways:

*   On the "All Movies" page, the column headings for "Movie Title" and "Release
    Date" for a movie should be clickable links. Clicking one of them should
    cause the list to be reloaded but sorted in ascending order on that column.
    Namely, 1.  clicking the "Movie Title" column should list the movies
    alphabetically by title (for movies whose names begin with non-letters, the
    sort order should match the behavior of String#<=>), and 2.  clicking the
    "Release Date" column heading should redisplay the list of movies with the
    earliest-released movies first.
*   When the listing page is redisplayed with sorting-on-a-column enabled, the
    column header that was selected for sorting should appear with a yellow
    background, as shown below. You should do this by setting controller
    variables that are used to conditionally set the CSS class of the
    appropriate table heading to hilite, and pasting this [simple
    CSS](http://pastebin.com/zRkyVWZM) snippet into RottenPotatoes's
    ```app/assets/stylesheets/application.css``` file.


RottenPotatoes Enhancement #2: Filter the List of Movies
========================================================

In this portion of the assignment, you will creating functionality within
RottenPotatoes that allows the user to filter movies by MPAA rating. The filter
will be controlled by checkboxes at the top of the "All Movies" listing.

When the "Refresh" button is pressed, the list of movies is redisplayed showing
only those movies whose ratings were checked.

This will require a couple of pieces of code. We have provided the code that
generates the checkboxes form, which you can include in the
```index.html.haml``` template, here on
[Pastebin](http://pastebin.com/vpPqkWMb). However, you have to do a bit of work
to use it: our code expects the variable ```@all_ratings``` to be an enumerable
collection of all possible values of a movie rating, such as
```['G','PG','PG-13','R']```. The controller method needs to set up this
variable. And since the possible values of movie ratings are really the
responsibility of the Movie model, it's best if the controller sets this
variable by consulting the Model. Create a class method of Movie that returns an
appropriate value for this collection.

You will also need code that figures out (i) how to figure out which boxes the
user checked and (ii) how to restrict the database query based on that result.

Regarding (i), try viewing the source of the movie listings with the checkbox
form, and you'll see that the checkboxes have field names like ```ratings[G]```,
```ratings[PG]```, etc. This trick will cause Rails to aggregate the values into
a single hash called ratings, whose keys will be the names of the checked boxes
only and whose values will be the value attribute of the checkbox which is "1"
by default, since we didn't specify another value when calling the
```check_box_tag``` helper. That is, if the user checks the 'G' and 'R' boxes,
```params``` will include as one if its values ```:ratings=>{"G"=>"1",
"R"=>"1"}```. Check out the Hash documentation for an easy way to grab just the
keys of a hash, since we don't care about the values in this case.

Regarding (ii), you'll probably end up replacing ```Movie.all``  with
```Movie.find```, which has various options to help you restrict the database
query.

Specific Requirements
---------------------

*   Make sure that you don't break the sorted-column functionality you added in
    part 1B! That is, sorting by column headers should still work, and if the
    user then clicks the "Movie Title" column header to sort by movie title, the
    displayed results should both be sorted and be limited by the Ratings
    checkboxes.
*   If the user checks (say) 'G' and 'PG' and then redisplays the list, the
    checkboxes that were used to filter the output should appear checked when
    the list is redisplayed. This will require you to modify the checkbox form
    slightly from the version we provided above.
*   The first time the user visits the page, all checkboxes should be
    checked by default (so the user will see all movies). For now, ignore the
    case when the user unchecks all checkboxes—you will get to this in the next
    part.


RottenPotatoes Enhancement #3: Remember the Settings
====================================================

Now that you have implemented parts 1 and 2, the user can click on the "Movie
Title" or "Release Date" headings and see movies sorted by those columns, and
can additionally use the checkboxes to restrict the listing to movies with
certain ratings only. Moreover, we have preserved RESTfulness, because the URI
itself always contains the parameters that will control sorting and filtering.

The last step is to remember these settings. That is, if

*   the user has selected any combination of column sorting and
    restrict-by-rating constraints,
*   and then the user clicks to see the details of
    one of the movies (for example), 

then when she clicks "Back to movie list" on the detail page, the movie listing
should "remember" the user's sorting and filtering settings from before.

*(Clicking away from the list to see the details of a movie is only one example;
the settings should be remembered regardless of what actions the user takes, so
that any time she visits the index page, the settings are correctly
reinstated.)*

The best way to do the "remembering" will be to use the ```session[]``` hash. The
session is like the ```flash[]```, except that once you set something in the
```session[]``` it is remembered "forever" until you nuke the session with
session.clear or selectively delete things from it with
```session.delete(:some_key)```. That way, in the index method, you can selectively
apply the settings from the ```session[]``` even if the incoming URI doesn't have the
appropriate ```params[]``` set.

To be RESTful, we want to preserve the property that a URI that results in a
sorted/filtered view always contains the corresponding sorting/filtering
parameters. Therefore, if you find that the incoming URI is lacking the right
```params[]``` and you're forced to fill them in from the ```session[]```, the RESTful
thing to do is to ```redirect_to``` the new URI containing the appropriate
parameters. There is an important corner case to keep in mind here, though: if
the previous action had placed a message in the ```flash[]``` to display after a
redirect to the movies page, your additional redirect will delete that message
and it will never appear, since the ```flash[]``` only survives across a single
redirect. To fix this, use flash.keep right before your additional redirect.

Specific Requirements:
---------------------

*   If the user explicitly includes new sorting/filtering settings in ```params[]```,
    the values stored in the session should not override them. On the contrary, the
    new settings should be remembered in the session. 
*   If a user unchecks all
    checkboxes, use the settings stored in the ```session[]``` hash (it doesn't make
    sense for a user to uncheck all the boxes). 

